README.md, before:

# Credit Card Fraud Detection – Unsupervised Anomaly Detection

This repository contains an end-to-end **credit card fraud detection** project using **unsupervised learning** on the well-known Kaggle dataset. [web:260][web:264]

The goal is to detect **rare fraudulent transactions (~0.17%)** without relying on labeled data at training time, and to compare two anomaly detection algorithms:

- **Isolation Forest** – tree-based model that isolates anomalies quickly in feature space  
- **Local Outlier Factor (LOF)** – density-based model that detects points in low-density regions  

The project includes:

- 🔍 **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)** on class imbalance and feature distributions  
- 🧹 **Data preprocessing** (scaling, train/test split with stratification)  
- 🤖 **Unsupervised models**: Isolation Forest and LOF, tuned for extreme imbalance  
- 📊 **Evaluation** using AUPRC, ROC-AUC, precision, recall, and confusion matrices  
- 🖼️ **Visualizations**: score distributions, PR/ROC curves, PCA anomaly plots  
- 💰 **Business impact analysis**: estimate fraud savings vs investigation cost  
- 🌐 **(Optional)** Streamlit dashboard for interactive model exploration and demo


## 📥 Data

This project uses the **Credit Card Fraud Detection** dataset from Kaggle. [web:291]

Because the CSV is ~150MB and exceeds GitHub's recommended file size, it is **not stored in this repo**.

1. Create a Kaggle account and accept the dataset terms  
2. Download `creditcard.csv` from:  
   https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud  [web:291]  
3. Place the file in the project root, next to `notebook.ipynb` / `app.py`:

This repo is designed as a **portfolio-ready machine learning project** showing how to tackle **highly imbalanced fraud detection** with unsupervised methods, clean code, and clear storytelling. [web:253][web:263][web:267]

Commit message:

Add local setup instructions for Streamlit app
Added instructions for running the Streamlit app locally.

README.md, after:

# Credit Card Fraud Detection – Unsupervised Anomaly Detection

This repository contains an end-to-end **credit card fraud detection** project using **unsupervised learning** on the well-known Kaggle dataset. [web:260][web:264]

The goal is to detect **rare fraudulent transactions (~0.17%)** without relying on labeled data at training time, and to compare two anomaly detection algorithms:

- **Isolation Forest** – tree-based model that isolates anomalies quickly in feature space  
- **Local Outlier Factor (LOF)** – density-based model that detects points in low-density regions  

The project includes:

- 🔍 **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)** on class imbalance and feature distributions  
- 🧹 **Data preprocessing** (scaling, train/test split with stratification)  
- 🤖 **Unsupervised models**: Isolation Forest and LOF, tuned for extreme imbalance  
- 📊 **Evaluation** using AUPRC, ROC-AUC, precision, recall, and confusion matrices  
- 🖼️ **Visualizations**: score distributions, PR/ROC curves, PCA anomaly plots  
- 💰 **Business impact analysis**: estimate fraud savings vs investigation cost  
- 🌐 **(Optional)** Streamlit dashboard for interactive model exploration and demo


## 📥 Data

This project uses the **Credit Card Fraud Detection** dataset from Kaggle. [web:291]

Because the CSV is ~150MB and exceeds GitHub's recommended file size, it is **not stored in this repo**.

1. Create a Kaggle account and accept the dataset terms  
2. Download `creditcard.csv` from:  
   https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud  [web:291]  
3. Place the file in the project root, next to `notebook.ipynb` / `app.py`:

## 🚀 Running the Streamlit app locally

Follow these steps to run the fraud detection dashboard on your machine.

### 1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<your-repo>.git
cd <your-repo>


### 3️⃣ Install dependencies
If you have a `requirements.txt`:
   pip install -r requirements.txt

This repo is designed as a **portfolio-ready machine learning project** showing how to tackle **highly imbalanced fraud detection** with unsupervised methods, clean code, and clear storytelling. [web:253][web:263][web:267]
